Source: attachments/Revenue Cycle Transition/Nieves, Wanda.pdf
Sensitivity: contains employee name and employee identifier. Employee identifier is redacted.
Extraction: local Tesseract OCR from the image-based PDF.

---

JOHNS HOPKINS
SCHOOL of MEDICINE

June 1, 2026

Wanda Nieves

Employee ID: [redacted]

Dear Wanda Nieves,

Thank you for your contributions and dedication during your time with Johns Hopkins University. For operational reasons, the Johns Hopkins University has decided to receive certain revenue cycle services through Johns Hopkins Health System ("JHHS"). As a result, your position will be administratively transferred to JHHS effective August 23, 2026.

Please be advised that this administrative transfer is contingent upon your successful completion of pre-employment process with JHHS. Representatives from the JHHS Talent Acquisition team will work with you to set up necessary pre-employment appointments and paperwork. These must be completed within the required timeframe to ensure your timely transfer to JHHS.

Administrative transfers follow a standard protocol which requires that certain employment-based criteria are met and that both your current organization and the organization to which you are being transferred agree on the need for transfer. Involuntary transfers of this nature are governed by guidelines adopted by the Johns Hopkins University. Those guidelines describe your benefit eligibility, conditions of transfer, compensation and service credit once you transfer to JHHS employment. Included in this letter is a benefits summary sheet and frequently asked questions to assist in summarizing information related to this administrative transfer.

Once your transfer has been processed, you will be scheduled for New Hire Orientation at JHHS. It is important that you attend this session which will provide you with further detailed description of benefits and the opportunity to elect benefits provided to you by Johns Hopkins Health System. To ensure timely start of those benefits, you must attend and complete the required paperwork by the designated dates.

Should you have further questions regarding this transfer, please speak with your supervisor or contact your local HR representative.

We understand the impact this change has and hope to assist you through the necessary process and transition. We appreciate your understanding as we best align our business and operations and the tasks you are assigned.

Sincerely,

Shalondan Hollingshed

Executive Director, Revenue Cycle
