Source: policies/HR029.pdf
Pages: 2

---

--- page 1 ---
Version 4.0
Transfers, Promotions,
Demotions and Reclassificatons
Guideline: HR029
Responsible Executive: N/A
Responsible Office: N/A
Approved by:
Effective Date: 07/01/2017
Last Revised: N/A
Table of Contents
Definitions
1
Policy
1
Definitions
Transfer
A transfer is the movement to another job that is previously established through an
approved personnel requisition, has the same salary range and may involve a salary
increase. A transfer may result in a title change.
Promotion
A promotion is the movement to another job in a higher job classification and will
result in a title change.
There are two types of promotions. Market-based promotions occur when an
employee assumes another job that has a higher value in the marketplace and has
been assigned a higher salary range. Contribution Level promotions occur when an
employee assumes another job that has been assigned a higher contribution level and
a higher salary range in the job classification system.
Demotion
A demotion is the movement to a job with a lower salary range and/or lower
contribution level. A demotion may result in a title change and may involve a
decrease in salary.

Policy
Job vacancies are posted and may be found on the University's employment opportunities web site and some are
listed in the Gazette.
Staff members are encouraged to maintain an awareness of vacancies and to seek job opportunities for which they
qualify. An expression of interest in a transfer or promotion, either by submitting an application as a result of a
job posting or through discussions with a staff member's supervisor, will in no way have any adverse effect on the
status of the staff member's current position. Every effort is made to fill vacancies with qualified staff from within
the University.
The University may initiate transfers, promotions or demotions at any time in response to the needs of the
organization and the needs of staff members.Staff members must have been in their present position for a minimum
of twelve (12) months before they are eligible for self-initiated transfer, promotion, or demotion. The supervisor
can waive the waiting period.
Demotions of staff members to positions involving less responsibility, skill or compensation must be fully
documented and reviewed with a representative of the divisional Human Resources Office before implementation.
© Copyright 2023 by The Johns Hopkins University
1

--- page 2 ---
Version 4.0
HR029 Transfers, Promotions, Demotions and Reclassificatons
Responsible Executive: N/A
Responsible Office: N/A
Approved by:
Effective Date: 07/01/2017
Last Revised: N/A
Staff members who activate self-initiated transfers and promotions resulting specifically from applying to a job
posting or who have taken a demotion will enter into a 120 calendar days introductory period for the new position.
If a staff member does not successfully complete this 120-day period, the staff member may apply for other open
positions within the University; however, there will be no guarantee of continued employment. Staff members have
30 days from notification of failure to complete successfully the introductory period to find a University position
for which they are qualified and accepted. The staff member may be scheduled to work during the notice period or
may be paid in lieu of notice. An individual who has not accepted a University position within the 30 days will be
terminated.
The divisional Human Resources Office will coordinate reference checks, transfers, promotions, demotions and
reclassifications.
When a staff member moves to a new position, relevant human resources forms and records are to be sent to the
appropriate divisional Human Resources Office.
© Copyright 2023 by The Johns Hopkins University
2
