Source: policies/JHU-JHHS-Administrative-Transfer-Guidelines.pdf
Pages: 7

---

--- page 1 ---
Administrative Transfer Guidelines
Page 1

JHHS/JHU ADMINISTRATIVE TRANSFER GUIDELINES
Effective date – 1/1/2026

I.
PURPOSE

The purpose of this document is to provide guidelines with respect to non-bargaining unit
employees who administratively transfer between the Johns Hopkins Health System (including any
of its organizations listed below) and The Johns Hopkins University (JHU). Transfers involving
union positions will be in accordance with the Collective Bargaining Agreement.


Johns Hopkins All Children’s Hospital, Inc

Johns Hopkins All Children’s Hospital

Johns Hopkins Bayview Medical Center, Inc

Johns Hopkins Community Physicians

Johns Hopkins Health Plans

The Johns Hopkins Health System Corporation (JHHSC)

Johns Hopkins Care at Home

Johns Hopkins Howard County Medical Center

Johns Hopkins Imaging

Johns Hopkins Medical Management Corporation

Johns Hopkins Medicine International

Johns Hopkins Regional Physicians, LLC

Johns Hopkins Surgery Center Series

Sibley Memorial Hospital

Suburban Hospital, Inc

The Johns Hopkins Hospital

The Johns Hopkins University

Johns Hopkins Health System or one of its organizations will be herein referred to as Johns
Hopkins Health System (JHHS).

II.
DEFINITIONS

1. Administrative Transfer: Classified as any transfer, voluntary or involuntary movement of an
employee from one organization’s payroll to another. An administrative transfer involves an
individual being terminated from one payroll and being picked up by the other payroll with no
break in service. Employees who elect to have a break in service between positions, and who
have not received prior written approval for such a break, must use available paid time off to
maintain uninterrupted benefits coverage.
2. Non-Exempt Staff: those employees who are deemed “non-exempt” under the Fair Labor
Standards Act.
3. Exempt Staff: those employees who are deemed to be “exempt” under the Fair Labor Standards
Act.
4. Forwarding Organization: the organization from which the employee is being administratively
transferred.
5. Receiving Organization: the organization to which the employee is being administratively
transferred.

III.
EMPLOYMENT DATE

The employment date indicated at the forwarding organization will transfer to the receiving
organization.

--- page 2 ---
Administrative Transfer Guidelines
Page 2

IV.
BENEFITS ELIGIBILITY

In accordance with the guidelines below, an employee undergoing an administrative transfer
remains eligible for uninterrupted health benefits, contingent on meeting the member
organization’s benefits eligibility schedule; all coverage details and conditions are governed by the
applicable plan documents.

Benefits Affected by Administrative Transfer:

1.
Medical, Dental, Life, Short-Term & Long-Term Disability Insurance

An employee being administratively transferred will be eligible for coverage in
accordance with the new organization’s plans without a lapse in coverage.

2.
Vacation/Paid Time Off (PTO)

The forwarding organization is responsible for paying out unused, accrued vacation
and/or PTO balances in accordance with the forwarding organization’s applicable
policies. Unused vacation from JHU will be paid out at 100% at the time of the
administrative transfer.

The date of employment with the forwarding organization will be used to determine
accrual rates for vacation or PTO at the new organization.

3.
     Sick Leave

Accrued sick leave balances will not be paid out from JHHS or JHU.

4.       Retirement Plans

a.
For JHU employees administratively transferring to JHHS.

1. JHHSC 403(b) Plan



Transferring employee shall receive vesting and eligibility service
credit from their JHU employment date as permitted under the
applicable plan document.

2. Johns Hopkins Medical Management 401(k) plan

Transferring employee shall receive vesting and eligibility service
credit from their JHU employment date as permitted under the
applicable plan document.

3. Johns Hopkins All Children’s Hospital 403(b) Savings Plan

Transferring employee shall receive vesting and eligibility service
credit from their JHU employment date as permitted under the
applicable plan document.

--- page 3 ---
Administrative Transfer Guidelines
Page 3

4.  Johns Hopkins Howard County Medical Center 401(k) plan

Transferring employee shall receive vesting and eligibility service
credit from their JHU employment date as permitted under the
applicable plan document.

5. Johns Hopkins Care at Home 403(b) Plan

Transferring employee shall receive vesting and eligibility service
credit from their JHU employment date as permitted under the
applicable plan document.

6. Sibley Memorial Hospital 401(k) Plan

Transferring employee shall receive vesting and eligibility service
credit from their JHU employment date as permitted under the
applicable plan document. For purposes of the hospital contribution
rate, the alternate applicable percentage rates shall be used.

7.  Sibley Memorial Hospital 403(b) Plan

Transferring employee shall receive vesting and eligibility service
credit from their JHU employment date as permitted under the
applicable plan document. For purposes of the hospital contribution
rate, the alternate applicable percentage rates shall be used.

8. Suburban Hospital Retirement Income Plan

Transferring employee shall receive vesting and eligibility service
credit from their JHU employment date as permitted under the
applicable plan document.

9. Suburban Hospital 403(b) Savings Plan

Transferring employee shall receive vesting and eligibility service
credit from their JHU employment date as permitted under the
applicable plan document.

10. District1199SEIU – Johns Hopkins Represented Employees 403(b)
plan and pension plan

Transferring employee shall receive vesting and eligibility service credit
from their JHU employment date as permitted under the applicable plan
document.

11.  Bayview Represented Employees 403(b) plan and pension plan

Transferring employee shall receive vesting and eligibility service
credit from their JHU employment date as permitted under the
applicable plan document.

--- page 4 ---
Administrative Transfer Guidelines
Page 4

12. Johns Hopkins Medical Management 401(k) plan

Transferring employee shall receive vesting and eligibility service
credit from their JHU employment date as permitted under the
applicable plan document.

b. For JHHS employees administratively transferring to JHU

1. JHU 403(b) Retirement Plan

Years of service for staff members being administratively transferred
to the university will be credited toward eligibility to participate in the
403(b) retirement plan.

(Example:  If the employee had two full-time continuous years of
service with the forwarding institution, and is under age 35, the
administratively transferring employee will receive a contribution of
4% of base salary monthly until the first day of the month coincident
with or following attainment of age 35. At that time, the rate of
contribution from JHU will increase to 8% of base salary.)

If the employee is age 35 upon the administrative transfer, the
employee will receive a contribution in the amount of 8% of base
salary monthly.

¹ Certain employee populations may be eligible for an alternative 6/12
contribution structure. Please refer to the applicable plan document
for eligibility criteria and specific details.

NOTE:  The retirement plans described in these guidelines are
governed by specific plan documents. Should there be any discrepancy
between these guidelines and the specific plan documents, the
provisions of the specific plan documents will govern.

2.  Seniority

The most recent hire date (after any voluntary break in service of more
than six months, or after 12 months for an involuntary termination) with
the organizations covered by these guidelines will be used to calculate
seniority.

3. Tuition Assistance

a. Tuition Assistance for Employees

Tuition assistance, which has been approved prior to administrative
transfer, will be paid by the forwarding organization, where
applicable, only for the duration of the current semester/course. The
applicable tuition assistance policy will apply to all subsequent
requests for educational assistance at the new organization.

NOTE: JHHS will waive any tuition assistance–related service
payback requirement when an employee is accepted for and
officially transfers into a position at JHU.

--- page 5 ---
Administrative Transfer Guidelines
Page 5


b. Dependent Tuition Program (Applies where benefit is currently
offered)

Full-time continuous service with the forwarding organization will
be counted toward the continuous service requirement for
dependent child tuition eligibility at the receiving organization.

4. FML (Family Medical Leave)

Eligibility under federal, state and local medical leave acts will be
determined on an individual case-by-case basis.

5. Flexible Spending Accounts

Reimbursement requests may be submitted for qualifying expenses or
benefits incurred through an employee’s administrative transfer date.
An administratively transferring employee may enroll for a spending
account at the new organization up to the IRS maximum allowable
contribution for that taxable year. For example, if the election for the
year was $1,000 and the employee transferring has contributed $500,
s/he would be able to submit expenses up to $1,000 prior to the
termination/transfer date. No claims with service dates after the
termination/transfer date would be permitted.

6. CONDITIONS OF TRANSFER

a. For employees transferring into JHHS (all hospitals and member
organizations):

Drug Screening/Pre-Employment Health Screening /Background
Check/Education/License and Certification (where applicable)

Employees transferring from JHU to JHHS are required to submit drug
screening, post-hire health screening and background checks as a
condition of an administrative transfer.

Administratively, Occupational Health records must be transferred to
the receiving organization. In the case of the absence of records,
Occupational Health will notify the employee for scheduling of post-
hire health screening. The policy of the forwarding organization
regarding substance use, Condition of Employment, pre-employment
physicals or background checks will then be followed.

A transferee who fails the drug screening test or the background checks
will not be accepted for a position with JHHS. The forwarding
organization’s HR department will be advised of the inability of the
employee to pass the pre-employment physical and/or positive
background checks.

--- page 6 ---
Administrative Transfer Guidelines
Page 6

b. For employees transferring into JHU:

Pre-Employment Health Screening/Criminal Background
Check/Education, License, Employment Verification

JHU’s pre-employment health screening and criminal background
checks are required as a condition of administrative transfer. In addition,
employment history, education, licensure and certification verification
are done by Employment. Drug screening is done occasionally at the
discretion of health care providers in Occupational Health. A transferee
who fails the health screening/criminal background check/verifications
will not be accepted for a position at JHU. The forwarding
organization’s HR department will be advised of the results of the
inability of the employee to pass the verifications, pre-employment
health screening, and/or positive criminal background check. The policy
of the forwarding organization regarding verifications, pre-employment
health screening or background checks will then be followed.

7. COMPENSATION

Wages and Salary

An employee who administratively transfers will be paid according to
the wage and salary policies and procedures of the organization into
which the employee is administratively transferring. All offers are
developed in alignment with JHHS compensation guidelines and
philosophy, with internal equity as a key consideration. Compensation
is determined based on the candidate’s experience, departmental equity
and approved guidelines, in partnership with HR and Compensation.
The forwarding organization and/or employee will be required to
provide a current job description.

8. BREAK IN SERVICE

Employees who elect to have a break in service between positions, and
who have not received prior written approval for such a break, must use
available paid time off to maintain uninterrupted benefits coverage
except as applicable under state and federal laws.

9. NEW HIRE ORIENTATION

An employee who administratively transfers will be required to attend
the New Hire Employee Orientation for the receiving organization. The
orientation is designed to review Human Resources policies, employee
benefit plans, regulatory/compliance requirements, etc.

10. REPAYMENT OF MONIES

An employee who administratively transfers is responsible for any
repayment of monies due to the forwarding organization; i.e.,
emergency loans, overpayments, etc. This section does not apply to
tuition assistance requirements except as noted in Section IV. B.3. of
these guidelines.

--- page 7 ---
Administrative Transfer Guidelines
Page 7

11. SERVICE AWARDS

Combined organizational service will be used to determine service
award eligibility under the receiving organization’s established service
awards program.

12. DISCLAIMER

a. Representation

The terms and conditions described in this document are for guidance
purposes only.  JHHS/JHU reserves the right to modify, amend, suspend
or terminate any term or condition at any time and for any reason
without prior notification. The plans described in these guidelines are
governed by insurance contracts or other plan documents, which are
available for inspection. Should there be a discrepancy between what is
described in these guidelines and the provisions of the insurance
contracts or other plan documents, the contracts and/or the plan
documents will govern.

b. Exceptions

In the event that a request is made for exception(s) to these guidelines,
each request will be addressed on a case-by-case basis by appropriate
human resources officers within the respective organizations.
