Source: policies/HR026.pdf
Pages: 5

---

--- page 1 ---
<< Section 5: Staff Compensation Program >>
Purpose

Eligibility

Job Classification

Position Description & Position Audits

Hiring Range & Starting Salaries

Performance and Salary Review

Developmental Increase

Promotion Increase

In-Range Salary Increase

Demotion

Salary Equity Adjustment

On-call Pay

Shift Differential Pay

Acting Pay

Discretionary Bonus

Changes to Salary Range Structure



Purpose

The objectives of the University's Staff Compensation Program are:

To support the strategic goals of the University and to be responsive to the unique and changing needs of its various
constituents.

To recognize and reward staff for their contribution to the organization

To pay salaries that are competitive with salaries in the marketplace in order to attract and retain a fully competent
workforce

To enable University staff members to receive salary increases based on job performance and contribution


Eligibility

The Staff Compensation Program applies to all staff members of the University. Corporate officers, faculty, and other

--- page 2 ---
academic appointees, fellows, students, bargaining unit members and Applied Physics Laboratory personnel are not
included. The Staff Compensation Program is administered without regard to sources of financial support.


Job Classification

The Role and Contribution Based Job Classification system is used to classify all staff jobs. In this system, each job is
assigned a classification role, a contribution level, and a salary range. The classification role assigned to a job defines the
context in which a job functions - operations, professional, or leadership. The level assigned to a job is based on the
nature and type of contribution it makes according to nine factors that the University identified as critical elements in a
job. The salary range assigned to a job is determined by its market value.


Position Description & Position Audits

Position documentation is written for each covered position in the University, describing the duties, responsibilities and
qualifications required for the position. The documentation should provide the present requirements of the position
only. It is not intended to document the position as it existed in the past or as it might be in the future. This
documentation should not be viewed as a vehicle to describe an individual's level of performance. The position
documentation should be completed by the incumbent, if applicable, then reviewed and approved by the supervisor.

The information in the position documentation is evaluated by trained compensation analysts. The results of the
evaluations will be discussed with the appropriate supervisor to determine whether the information in the
documentation accurately describes the duties, responsibilities, and qualifications of the position. Adjustments may be
made, where necessary, based upon this new information. A copy of the approved documentation should be retained in
the originating department and should be available to the incumbent.

The position documentation of positions covered by the Joint Commission of Accreditation of Healthcare Organization
(JCAHO) must be reviewed and updated per current JCAHO requirements.

Positions may be audited at any time by compensation analysts in order to assure the equity and consistency of job
classifications.


Hiring Range & Starting Salaries

A hiring official may post a hiring range from the minimum of the assigned range up to the market reference point or
salary range midpoint of a job, whichever is higher.

When determining starting salaries, a hiring department in consultation with the divisional Human Resources Office or
human resources manager will consider the applicant's prior experience and/or education directly related to the
position to ensure internal equity. A department may pay starting salaries up to the market reference point or salary
range midpoint of a job, or up to the average salary of similar university positions provided internal equity is observed.
With appropriate justification and documented approval by the divisional Human Resources Office or human resources
manager and by the appropriate dean or vice president, a hiring official may offer higher starting salaries.

A department must adhere to the approvals that are required by its division/school internal policy when establishing a
hiring range and/or starting salaries.


Performance and Salary Review

At least annually, written performance and salary reviews shall be conducted for all staff members. The annual salary

--- page 3 ---
review date may be based on the date of the last annual salary adjustment, the actual date of hire, the actual date of
promotion, the actual date of transfer or a common date established by a school/division. Salary increases are not
automatic, but are based on individual merit. Managers and supervisors are encouraged to recognize differences in
performance levels in awarding increases.

If the staff member's annual performance does not warrant a salary increase, documentation must be submitted to the
divisional Human Resources Office or Human Resources Manager.

The annual salary increase given to a staff member shall be based on a staff member's performance and the University's
established annual salary increase guidelines and calculated on a staff member's current salary or salary range midpoint.
These increases are awarded one year from the staff member's date of last annual salary adjustment or date of
employment, whichever is more recent.

The annual salary adjustment should be prorated for staff members who have been on an extended leave of absence
since their last salary increase or their salary review date should be adjusted accordingly except for Family Medical
Leave. An extended leave of absence is a leave in excess of 30 continuous calendar days.


Developmental Increase

A department may grant a developmental increase to a staff member who demonstrates increased skill and proficiency,
and growing competency and job maturity while in the current job. An established developmental growth plan with
defined milestones must be approved by the department and divisional Human Resources Office or human resources
manager before a developmental increase may be awarded. The amount and timing of the developmental increase will
depend on the developmental growth plan for the staff member. A developmental increase is awarded in addition to a
staff member's annual salary increase and will not change a staff member's annual salary review date. In implementing a
developmental increase, documentation must be submitted to divisional Human Resources Office or human resources
manager. The documentation will be placed in the staff member's personnel file.


Promotion Increase

There are two types of promotion increases that a staff member may receive - Market-based Promotion and
Contribution Level Promotion.

A staff member receives a Market-based Promotion increase when moving to a job that has been classified at a higher
salary range.

A staff member receives a Contribution Level Promotion when moving to a job that has been classified at a higher
contribution level and a higher salary range.

The amount of salary increase will include a pro-rated merit increase and will be determined by the department in
collaboration with the divisional Human Resources Office or human resources manager based on the market reference
or salary range midpoint for the job, the staff member's current salary, qualifications and relevant work experience, and
other factors such as the size of the promotion, internal equity. and departmental salary budget. The promotion
increase may be communicated to the staff member only after the department and divisional Human Resources Office
or Human Resources Manager have reached an agreement on the appropriate amount of the promotion increase or
when a salary increase exception has been obtained from the department's dean or vice president. Appropriate
documentation for salary exceptions must be submitted to Human Resources.

When a staff member's salary, after computing item 3 above, is below the minimum of the new salary range, the staff
member will receive an additional increase to bring the salary to the minimum of the new salary range.

--- page 4 ---
A staff member who has been promoted is subject to the 120 calendar days introductory period for the new job.

The effective date of a promotion is the date the promotional position is assumed.


In-Range Salary Increase

An in-range salary increase is given to recognize an employee for meaningful increased duties and responsibilities in the
current job classification (without a change in classification level and/or salary range). To be considered for an in-range
salary increase, an employee must have completed the introductory period in the current position.
An in-range salary increase should not exceed the annual salary increase guidelines and is subject to
school/division/department internal protocol. No more than one in- range salary increase may be given within a 12
month period. An in-range salary increase does not change the staff member's annual salary review date.
Note: If an in-range salary increase has been previously given to the employee for the same position, please consult with
your Divisional Human Resources Office before giving another in-range salary increase. A job classification review may
be in order.


Demotion

When moved to a job with a lower salary range and/or lower contribution level, a staff member's salary may be
reduced. Also, future salary increases may be reduced until the staff member's salary falls appropriately in line with the
new salary range. The staff member's salary review date remains unchanged.


Salary Equity Adjustment

A department may consider making salary adjustments to correct an inequity in staff salary. Based on appropriate
documentation, the amount of salary equity adjustment is determined by the department in collaboration with their
divisional Human Resources Office or human resources manager. The department must ensure that funds are available
before making a salary equity adjustment. A salary equity adjustment does not typically alter a staff member's annual
salary review date. There are two types of equity adjustments.

An internal equity adjustment may be made when an inequity exists between the salary of a staff member and other
staff members in the same job and with comparable experience, qualifications, and performance. It may also be given
when salary compression exists among incumbents of different jobs.

An external equity salary adjustment or market adjustment may be made to adjust a salary to the market reference
point of comparable jobs. A staff member's experience, qualifications, and performance must be considered when
determining the need to make an external equity or market adjustment.


On-call Pay

In few instances, a department may have a business need to require staff to be on- call. On-call pay may be provided to
compensate a staff member for being available to report to work within a defined period of time. The amount of on-call
pay will be based on several factors, including length and frequency of on-call coverage, required response time,
prevailing and comparable on-call practices within the university and outside organizations. Departments who wish to
establish or modify an existing on-call pay practice must consult with the divisional Human Resources Office or human
resources manager to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations and compliance with established
university guidelines. The department also must ensure that funds are available and must obtain the appropriate dean,
vice president, or designee approval before implementation.

--- page 5 ---
Shift Differential Pay

In some situations, shift differential pay may be given to a staff member who works evening, night or weekend shifts
according to a department's business operational needs. When deemed appropriate, shift differential pay will be
determined on the basis of several factors including shift hours worked and competitive pay practices at comparable
organizations internal and external to the department. Shift differential pay must be included in the calculation of a staff
member's overtime pay. The department must consult with the divisional Human Resources Office or human resources
manager to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations and compliance with established university shift
differential pay guidelines. The department also must ensure that funds are available and must obtain the appropriate
dean, vice president, or designee approval before implementation.

Acting Pay

Acting pay may be awarded for assuming significant responsibilities for a higher level job for a period longer than one
month from the date a staff member is placed on acting status. In consultation with Human Resources, the department
will determine the appropriate acting pay to award and how it will be paid based on a combination of factors, i.e.,
nature, scope, significance and impact of responsibilities to be performed; length of acting assignment; job classification
(role, level and salary range) of the higher level job; impact on the staff member's primary responsibilities in the current
job; impact on the number of hours required to complete all work assignments; eligibility to receive overtime payment if
the job is non-exempt. Acting pay will typically be based on the midpoint of the higher salary range. Internal equity with
employees in the higher range job title will need to be considered. Otherwise, monetary recognition of the additional
effort should be made at the time of the staff member's annual performance and salary review or through a one-time
discretionary bonus/pay supplement.

Discretionary Bonus

A discretionary bonus is a one time cash award given in recognition of a staff member's exceptional performance,
significant contributions and substantial achievements well beyond normal or regular work duties. A discretionary bonus
is given at the discretion of the manager according to established University guidelines. Documentation and prior
approval of the appropriate dean, vice president, or designee are required.

Changes to Salary Range Structure

Staff members whose salaries are below the revised minimum of their salary range should be brought to the new
minimum. This adjustment should not affect the normal salary review date.

DISCLAIMER
This manual does not constitute an express or implied contract and its provisions are not intended to be contractually
binding.  Each staff member’s employment is terminable at will, and each has the right to end employment with the
University at any time for any reason and the University reserves this same right.

RESERVATION OF RIGHTS
THE UNIVERSITY RETAINS ALL MANAGERIAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE RIGHTS AND PREROGATIVES ENTRUSTED TO IT AND
CONFERRED ON EMPLOYERS INHERENTLY AND BY LAW. THESE INCLUDE, BUT ARE NOT LIMITED TO: THE RIGHT TO
EXERCISE JUDGMENT IN ESTABLISHING AND ADMINISTERING POLICIES, PRACTICES AND PROCEDURES, AND TO MAKE
CHANGES IN THEM WITHOUT NOTICE; THE RIGHT TO TAKE WHATEVER ACTION IS NECESSARY IN THE UNIVERSITY'S
JUDGMENT TO ACHIEVE HOPKINS' GOALS; AND THE RIGHT TO SET THE STANDARDS OF PRODUCTIVITY AND SERVICES TO
BE RENDERED, ETC. FAILURE OF THE UNIVERSITY TO EXERCISE ANY SUCH PREROGATIVE OR FUNCTION IN A PARTICULAR
WAY SHALL NOT BE CONSIDERED A WAIVER OF THE UNIVERSITY'S RIGHT TO EXERCISE THAT PREROGATIVE OR
FUNCTION IN THE FUTURE OR TO PRECLUDE IT FROM EXERCISING THAT PREROGATIVE OR FUNCTION IN SOME OTHER
WAY.
